chore: rewrote the getting started docs (#11292)
siderolabs/talos: website/content/v1.10/introduction/getting-started.md

    You can install `talosctl` on macOS or Linux by running:

```bash
brew install siderolabs/tap/talosctl
```

Refer to the [talosctl installation guide]({{< relref "../talos-guides/install/talosctl" >}}) for installation on other platforms.
    
- **Ensure network access**: Your machines will need internet access to download the Talos installer and container images, sync time, and more.

    If you’re working in a restricted network environment, check out the official documentation on using [registry proxies]({{< relref "../talos-guides/configuration/pull-through-cache" >}}), local registries, or setting up an [air-gapped installation]({{< relref "../advanced/air-gapped" >}}).

## Talos Cluster Setup Overview

Every Talos cluster follows the same process, regardless of where you deploy it:

1. **Boot** - Start machines with the Talos Linux image
2. **Configure** - Create a root of trust certificate authority and generate configuration files
3. **Apply** - Apply machine configurations to the nodes
4. **Connect** - Set up your local `talosctl` client
5. **Bootstrap** - Initialize the Kubernetes cluster. 

> **Note**: You can also opt to use [Omni](https://www.siderolabs.com/omni-signup/) to create a Talos cluster spanning different platforms, bare metal, cloud providers, and virtual machines.

Reviewer: idk if we should do a better wording here, but that might be marketing/production question

1. Run this command to apply the control plane configuration:

```bash
talosctl apply-config --insecure --nodes $CONTROL_PLANE_IP --file controlplane.yaml
```

2. Next, apply the worker node configuration:

```bash
for ip in "${WORKER_IP[@]}"; do
    echo "Applying config to worker node: $ip"
    talosctl apply-config --insecure --nodes "$ip" --file worker.yaml
done
```

## Step 8: Bootstrap Your Etcd Cluster

Wait for your control plane node to finish booting, then bootstrap your etcd cluster by running:

```bash
talosctl bootstrap --nodes $CONTROL_PLANE_IP --endpoints $CONTROL_PLANE_IP --talosconfig=./talosconfig
```

<Note>Run this command ONCE on a SINGLE control plane node. If you have multiple control plane nodes, you can choose any of them.</Note>

## Step 9: Get Kubernetes Access

Download your `kubeconfig` file to start using `kubectl`.

You can get your `kubeconfig` file in one of two ways:

- Merge your new cluster into your local Kubernetes configuration:

```bash
talosctl kubeconfig --nodes $CONTROL_PLANE_IP --endpoints $CONTROL_PLANE_IP \
  --talosconfig=./talosconfig
```

> - **S**pecify a filename if you prefer not to merge with your default Kubernetes configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specify a filename if you prefer not to merge with your default Kubernetes configuration:
```

---

> title: Getting Started with a Local Talos Cluster 1.10

Reviewer: let's please not put the version anywhere, as it makes duplicating docs for the next release too hard

We have `{{< version >}}` or similar template variable if you really need a version

> title: Getting Started with a Local Talos Cluster 1.10

Reviewer 2: I feel like the word "Local" might be misleading given that the guide is aimed at physical hardware. I think I'd be less confusing if the term was removed and you mentioned that this page is meant for physical machines on a local network somewhere in the beginning.

weight: 30
description: "A guide to setting up a Talos cluster"
---

This guide walks you through creating a simple Talos cluster with one control plane node and one or more worker nodes. 

If you're looking to set up a cluster with multiple control plane nodes, see [Production Notes]({{< ref "prodnotes" >}}).

**New to Talos?** Start with [Quickstart]({{< ref "quickstart" >}}) to create a local virtual cluster on your workstation.

> **Planning for production?** See [Production Notes]({{< ref "prodnotes" >}}) for additional requirements and best practices.

Reviewer: let's use `relref` everywhere for consistency, and I think Hugo verifies all such links

> **Installing on cloud or virtualized platforms?** Check out the [platform-specific guides](/v1.10/talos-guides/install/) for installation methods tailored to different environments.

Reviewer 3: I think for links it's important to leverage Hugo template functionality and have it generate links for us. Otherwise it's a *lot* of work to update all these when a new version drops.

e.g.
```suggestion
**Installing on cloud or virtualized platforms?** Check out the [platform-specific guides]({{< relref ../talos-guides/install >}}) for installation methods tailored to different environments.
```

    You can install `talosctl` on macOS or Linux by running:

```bash
brew install siderolabs/tap/talosctl
```

Refer to the [talosctl installation guide](/v1.10/talos-guides/install/talosctl) for installation on other platforms.
    
- **Ensure network access**: Your machines will need internet access to download the Talos installer and container images, sync time, and more.

    If you’re working in a restricted network environment, check out the official documentation on using [registry proxies](/v1.10/talos-guides/configuration/pull-through-cache), local registries, or setting up an [air-gapped installation](/v1.10/advanced/air-gapped).

## Talos Cluster Setup Overview

Every Talos cluster follows the same process, regardless of where you deploy it:

1. **Boot** - Start machines with the Talos Linux image
2. **Configure** - Create a root of trust certificate authority and generate configuration files
3. **Apply** - Apply machine configurations to the nodes
4. **Connect** - Set up your local `talosctl` client
5. **Bootstrap** - Initialize the Kubernetes cluster. 

> **Note**: You can also opt to use the Omni GUI to create a Talos cluster spanning different platforms, bare metal, cloud providers, and virtual machines.

Reviewer 2: There should be a link leading to omni here. Also the term "GUI" is incorrect as omni is much more than a GUI.

## Step 2: Boot Your Machine

Boot your hardware using the ISO image you just downloaded. At this stage, you'll:

- Boot one machine as your control plane node.
- Boot additional machines as worker nodes (this is optional).

You’ll see the Talos dashboard once your hardware boots from the ISO image.

**Note**: The ISO runs entirely in RAM and won't modify your disks until you apply a configuration**.**

**Troubleshooting network connectivity:** If your machine fails to establish a network connection after booting, you may need to add network drivers through system extensions. Add these extensions to your Talos image via the [Image factory](https://factory.talos.dev/), or see the [system extensions repository](https://github.com/siderolabs/extensions) for more information.

## Step 3: Store Your Node IP Addresses in a Variable

To create variables for your machines’ IP addresses:

1. Copy the IP address displayed on each machine console, including the control plane and any worker nodes you’ve created. 

If you don’t have a display connected, retrieve the IP addresses from your DHCP server.

> ![](https://lh7-rt.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXf8GSw-N_xtOrf9SF5woCrykShYdR4viP50-5C0vrtAGwe6Y7s7W4nzMPFrRI7DSLGXRhnDjYZB-nDzSW1ekiVbzgr-mYPEjfH22nFQgwAFBE-HcdV_ZahOoZyg6qfFP184Yo0_MA?key=EnbElPOmPgqlw8y3xF7EsA)

Reviewer: what is that? images should be part of the docs (we should put them to the git repo)

2. Create a variable for your control plane node’s IP address by replacing `<your-control-plane-ip>` with the actual IP:

```bash
export CONTROL_PLANE_IP=<your-control-plane-ip>
```

3. If you have worker nodes, store their IP addresses in a Bash array. Replace each `<worker-ip>` placeholder with the actual IP address of a worker node. You can include as many IP addresses as needed:

```bash
WORKER_IP=("<worker-ip-1>" "<worker-ip-2>" "<worker-ip-3>"...)
```

**Example:**

If your worker node IPs are `192.168.0.10`, `192.168.0.11`, `192.168.0.12`, your array would be:

```bash

> WORKER_IP=("192.168.0.10" "192.168.0.11" "192.168.0.12")

Reviewer 2: I don't think the example is really necessary here

```

## Step 4: Unmount the ISO

Unplug your installation USB drive or unmount the ISO. This prevents you from accidentally installing to the USB drive and makes it clearer which disk to select for installation.

## Step 5: Learn About Your Installation Disks 

When you first boot your machine from the ISO, Talos runs temporarily in memory. This means that your Talos nodes, configurations, and cluster membership won't survive reboots or power cycles.

However, once you apply the machine configuration (which you'll do later in this guide), you'll install Talos, its complete operating system, and your configuration to a specified disk for permanent storage.

Run this command to view all the available disks on your control plane:
```
talosctl get disks --insecure --nodes $CONTROL_PLANE_IP
```
Note the disk ID (e.g., `sda`, `vda`) as you will use it in the next step.

## Step 6: Generate Cluster Configuration

> Talos Linux is configured entirely using declarative configuration files rather than traditional SSH commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Talos Linux is configured entirely using declarative configuration files avoiding the need to deal with SSH and running commands.
```

"SSH commands" doesn't make sense as ssh is a protocol used to run the commands on a remote machine.
